**3rd February 2015 – Discussion on Nammu's mockups**

*Attendees: Eleanor, Niek, Steve, Raquel*

1. **Discussion on composites**.
We need to make a distinction between a composite object and a composite text. **Action**: _James to clarify which is his interpretation of a composite_.
ATF files should only be treated as composites when they have an “@composite” line in the metadata of the object descriptions. E.g.: anzu.atf
Composites are abstract concepts Assyriologists use to refer to the data collected from several sources (fragments of objects) often coming from different places. In the “@composite” files, there are no references to objects such as “@tablet” or “@object statue”. **Action**: _Raquel to discuss with James about this and see how to modify the grammar/data model_.

1. **Discussion on emacs plugin functionality**:
Emacs presents options that might be needed to be included in Nammu, eg:
 * Generate template
 * Harvest 
 * Count lemmata

There are two types of users: people who creates/edits texts and project managers. Managers use “Count lemmata” to check the number of lemmata in a text and track progress of work. **Action**: _Raquel to add this option to Nammu in a later stage of development_. Same with the “Harvest” option?
The “Generate template” option is not used very often, so don’t implement it in Nammu.
Steve created some documents at the beginning of the project with information on what functionality is expected when. **Action**: _James to send this to Raquel_.

1. **Connection to DB for lemmatizing**:
**Action**: _Steve to send Raquel an email with the connection details and/or permission to a the server code in Github when made public (“oman” project?)_.
It was clarified that the query to the DB send the whole ATF file and this is processed in the server (lemmata are added, and if it already were, then check for “x” and lemmatize).
**Action**: _Raquel to write a short piece of code to try out connection_.
 
1. Keep **Niek** in the loop as he’s the one from the team writing ATFs the most and willing to test the tool.
**Action**: _Raquel to send him an installer with a draft version of Nammu to check he’s able to test it in the next two months_.

1. When **creating a new project** with Nammu, present user with form to insert object ID and metadata (language, project, etc). Nice to have: Request ID to CDLI from Nammu (specially useful for PXXXXX ids), optionally see list of catalogue entries? To discuss later with Steve/Eleanor.
**Action**: _Raquel to update mockups_.

1. **Nice to have**: access to corpus from Nammu. The whole corpus will be uploaded to Github by Steve later on, Nammu could link to it.

1. Review and comments on presented mockups:
 * **Translations** complicate the model view: line-by-line/interlinear ones are easy to represent, but labeled and unitary are not linked to specific text lines. Steve suggests that the model view represents only the interlinear ones in a first stage, and consider later to present the other kinds of translations as another element in the stackpile for an object. **Action**: _Raquel to update mockups to represent this_.
 * **Unicode**: Users are used to change keyboards from local to a custom keyboard created by Steve to easy Unicode transliteration. Having a button in the tool to change keyboards would come in handy. **Action**: _Raquel to update mockups to reflect this_. **Action**: Raquel to check how Java handles this kind of thing, as users with different operating systems and local keyboard configurations (users with German keyboards in particular?) have trouble with this sometimes.
 * Steve suggests **keyboard mode defaults** to local when adding a translation, and defaults to Unicode when adding text lines, but always offer the option to change keyboard configuration to the user.
 * **Validation messages**: very useful to display validation errors accompanied by line/column number in text file. **Action**: _Raquel to update mockups to reflect this_. **Action**: _option to show/hide line/column numbers in text editor – Raquel to update mockups_. **Nice to have**: Error highlighting in both object model and text editor.
 * **Console/Popup** to display error/success messages. Steve suggests validation messages appear in the console, and lemmatization messages appear in a pop up. **Action**: _Raquel to represent this in mockups_.



